README.md, before:

# WHOOP MCP Server for Poke

Connect your WHOOP fitness data to Poke AI assistant using the Model Context Protocol (MCP).

[![Deploy to Render](https://render.com/images/deploy-to-render-button.svg)](https://render.com/deploy)

---

## 🎯 What This Does

This MCP server lets you query your WHOOP fitness data through Poke AI assistant using natural language:

- **"What's my recovery score today?"** - Get your daily recovery metrics
- **"How did I sleep last night?"** - Analyze your sleep performance  
- **"Show me my strain data"** - View workout strain and heart rate zones
- **"What's my biological age?"** - Check your WHOOP Age and healthspan metrics

---

## ✨ Features

- 🏃 **5 WHOOP Data Tools**: Overview, Sleep, Recovery, Strain, Healthspan
- 🔄 **Automatic Token Refresh**: Handles authentication seamlessly
- 🌐 **Cloud Ready**: Deploy to Render with one click
- 🤖 **Poke Compatible**: Works out of the box with Poke AI

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10 or higher
- [WHOOP account](https://www.whoop.com) with active subscription
- [Poke account](https://poke.com) (for AI assistant integration)
- [Render account](https://render.com) (free tier works)

### Option 1: Deploy to Render (Recommended)

1. **Click the "Deploy to Render" button above**

2. **Configure your deployment:**
   - Name: `whoop-mcp-server` (or your choice)
   - Branch: `main`

3. **Set environment variables:**
   - `WHOOP_EMAIL`: Your WHOOP account email
   - `WHOOP_PASSWORD`: Your WHOOP account password

4. **Wait for deployment** (~5-10 minutes)

5. **Get your MCP URL:**
   ```
   https://your-service-name.onrender.com/mcp
   ```

6. **Connect to Poke:**
   - Go to https://poke.com/settings/connections/integrations/new
   - Add your MCP URL
   - Start asking questions!

### Option 2: Run Locally

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/kabirrgrover/whoop-mcp-poke.git
   cd whoop-mcp-poke
   ```

2. **Create virtual environment:**
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

3. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Configure environment:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your WHOOP credentials
   ```

5. **Run the server:**
   ```bash
   python src/server.py
   ```

6. **Server runs at:** `http://localhost:8000/mcp`

---

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Required | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| `WHOOP_EMAIL` | ✅ Yes | Your WHOOP account email |
| `WHOOP_PASSWORD` | ✅ Yes | Your WHOOP account password |
| `PORT` | ❌ No | Server port (default: 8000, auto-set by Render) |

### WHOOP Credentials

Get your WHOOP credentials:
1. Sign up at https://www.whoop.com
2. Ensure you have an active WHOOP subscription
3. Use your login email and password

**Security Note:** Your credentials are stored securely in environment variables and never logged or exposed.

---

## 📱 Using with Poke

### Connect to Poke

1. Deploy your server to Render (or run locally with ngrok)
2. Go to https://poke.com/settings/connections/integrations/new
3. Add your MCP server URL
4. Test the connection

### Testing the Connection

After connecting to Poke, test with:
```
"Use the test_connection tool"
```

You should see: ✅ MCP Server is working! Connection successful.

### Available Tools

#### 1. Overview Data
Ask Poke: *"What's my WHOOP data for today?"*

Returns:
- Recovery score
- Day strain
- Sleep hours
- Calories burned
- HRV, RHR trends
- Today's activities

#### 2. Sleep Analysis
Ask Poke: *"How did I sleep last night?"*

Returns:
- Sleep performance score
- Hours slept vs needed
- Sleep consistency
- Sleep efficiency
- Insights and recommendations

#### 3. Recovery Metrics
Ask Poke: *"What's my recovery score?"*

Returns:
- Recovery score (0-100%)
- HRV with trends
- RHR with trends
- Respiratory rate
- Coach insights

#### 4. Strain Tracking
Ask Poke: *"Show me my strain data"*

Returns:
- Strain score
- Heart rate zone distribution
- Strength activity time
- Steps
- Individual workouts

#### 5. Healthspan
Ask Poke: *"What's my biological age?"*

Returns:
- WHOOP Age (biological age)
- Age comparison vs chronological
- Pace of aging
- Weekly trends

### Example Conversation

```
User: What's my recovery score today?

Poke: [Calls whoop_get_recovery tool]

Response: Your recovery is 72% (Green - Ready to perform)

📊 Key Metrics:
  • HRV: 65ms (↑ 8% vs baseline)
  • RHR: 52bpm (↓ 3% vs baseline)
  • Sleep Performance: 85%

💡 Coach Insight: "Your recovery is in the green. Your body 
is ready for a high-intensity workout today."

User: Should I do a hard workout?

Poke: Based on your 72% recovery (green zone), yes! Your HRV 
is trending up 8% and your RHR is down 3%, indicating your 
body has recovered well. Your sleep was also strong at 85%. 
This is a great day for high-intensity training.
```

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
Poke AI ←→ MCP Server (Render) ←→ WHOOP API
         HTTPS/MCP              HTTPS/AWS Cognito
```

### Technology Stack

- **FastMCP 2.0** - MCP server framework
- **Python 3.10+** - Runtime
- **httpx** - Async HTTP client
- **Render** - Cloud hosting
- **AWS Cognito** - WHOOP authentication

---

## 🛠️ Development

### Project Structure

```
whoop-mcp-poke/
├── src/
│   ├── server.py           # FastMCP server
│   ├── whoop_client.py     # WHOOP API client
│   ├── config.py           # Configuration
│   └── tools/
│       └── whoop.py        # Tool handlers
├── requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
├── render.yaml            # Render configuration
└── README.md              # This file
```

### Running Tests

Test your MCP server with the MCP Inspector:

```bash
# Start your server
python src/server.py

# In another terminal
npx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector
```

Open http://localhost:3000 and connect to `http://localhost:8000/mcp` using "HTTP" transport.

---

## 🔒 Security

- ✅ Credentials stored in environment variables only
- ✅ WHOOP tokens auto-refresh (24-hour lifetime)
- ✅ No credentials in code or logs
- ✅ HTTPS for all API calls
- ✅ AWS Cognito authentication

**Best Practices:**
- Never commit `.env` file
- Use strong WHOOP password
- Rotate credentials if exposed
- Use Render's environment variable encryption

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### "Authentication failed" Error

**Solution:**
1. Verify your WHOOP email and password in Render environment variables
2. Try logging into https://app.whoop.com with the same credentials
3. Ensure your WHOOP subscription is active

### "Invalid MCP server URL" in Poke

**Solution:**
1. Verify your URL is exactly: `https://your-service-name.onrender.com/mcp`
2. Check that your Render service is running (green status)
3. Test the endpoint in a browser - you should see JSON response

### Deployment Timeout on Render

**Solution:**
1. Check Render logs for specific errors
2. Verify all environment variables are set
3. Ensure `requirements.txt` has all dependencies

### Server responds but no data returned

**Solution:**
1. Verify your WHOOP subscription is active
2. Check you have recent WHOOP data (wear your strap!)
3. Try querying data from a specific date: "What was my recovery on 2025-11-01?"

### "No module named 'fastmcp'" Error

**Solution:**
1. Verify `requirements.txt` has `fastmcp>=2.0.0`
2. On Render, trigger a manual deploy to reinstall dependencies
3. Check Render logs for failed dependency installation

---

## 📚 Resources

### Documentation
- [FastMCP Documentation](https://gofastmcp.com)
- [FastMCP GitHub](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp)
- [MCP Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io)
- [Poke Integration Guide](https://poke.com/settings/connections)
- [WHOOP](https://www.whoop.com)
- [Render Documentation](https://render.com/docs)

### Related Projects
- [Poke MCP Template](https://github.com/InteractionCo/mcp-server-template) - Official Poke template
- [MCP Inspector](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/inspector) - Tool for testing MCP servers

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

---

## 📄 License

MIT License - feel free to use this for your own projects!

---

## ⭐ Acknowledgments

- Built with [FastMCP 2.0](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp)
- Designed for [Poke AI Assistant](https://poke.com)

---

## 💬 Support

If you have questions or issues:
1. Check the [Troubleshooting](#-troubleshooting) section above
2. [Open an issue](https://github.com/kabirrgrover/whoop-mcp-poke/issues) on GitHub
3. Review [FastMCP documentation](https://gofastmcp.com)
4. Check [Poke's integration guide](https://poke.com/settings/connections)

---

## 🚀 Quick Links

- **Use This Template:** Click "Use this template" button above
- **Report Issues:** [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/kabirrgrover/whoop-mcp-poke/issues)
- **Star on GitHub:** Show your support! ⭐

---

**Made with ❤️ for the WHOOP and Poke communities**

*This is an open-source project. Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome!*

Commit message:

Update differentiator section to emphasize reverse-engineered approach

README.md, after:

# WHOOP MCP Server for Poke

Connect your WHOOP fitness data to Poke AI assistant using the Model Context Protocol (MCP).

[![Deploy to Render](https://render.com/images/deploy-to-render-button.svg)](https://render.com/deploy)

---

## 🎯 What This Does

This MCP server lets you query your WHOOP fitness data through Poke AI assistant using natural language:

- **"What's my recovery score today?"** - Get your daily recovery metrics
- **"How did I sleep last night?"** - Analyze your sleep performance  
- **"Show me my strain data"** - View workout strain and heart rate zones
- **"What's my biological age?"** - Check your WHOOP Age and healthspan metrics

---

## ✨ Features

- 🏃 **5 WHOOP Data Tools**: Overview, Sleep, Recovery, Strain, Healthspan
- 🔄 **Automatic Token Refresh**: Handles authentication seamlessly
- 🌐 **Cloud Ready**: Deploy to Render with one click
- 🤖 **Poke Compatible**: Works out of the box with Poke AI

### 🔑 What Makes This Different

This is a **reverse-engineered** implementation that directly interfaces with WHOOP's private API. No official SDK, no OAuth flows, no waiting for API approval. Perfect for developers who don't want to go through the hassle of WHOOP's official development program but still want programmatic access to their comprehensive fitness data.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10 or higher
- [WHOOP account](https://www.whoop.com) with active subscription
- [Poke account](https://poke.com) (for AI assistant integration)
- [Render account](https://render.com) (free tier works)

### Option 1: Deploy to Render (Recommended)

1. **Click the "Deploy to Render" button above**

2. **Configure your deployment:**
   - Name: `whoop-mcp-server` (or your choice)
   - Branch: `main`

3. **Set environment variables:**
   - `WHOOP_EMAIL`: Your WHOOP account email
   - `WHOOP_PASSWORD`: Your WHOOP account password

4. **Wait for deployment** (~5-10 minutes)

5. **Get your MCP URL:**
   ```
   https://your-service-name.onrender.com/mcp
   ```

6. **Connect to Poke:**
   - Go to https://poke.com/settings/connections/integrations/new
   - Add your MCP URL
   - Start asking questions!

### Option 2: Run Locally

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/kabirrgrover/whoop-mcp-poke.git
   cd whoop-mcp-poke
   ```

2. **Create virtual environment:**
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

3. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Configure environment:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your WHOOP credentials
   ```

5. **Run the server:**
   ```bash
   python src/server.py
   ```

6. **Server runs at:** `http://localhost:8000/mcp`

---

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Required | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| `WHOOP_EMAIL` | ✅ Yes | Your WHOOP account email |
| `WHOOP_PASSWORD` | ✅ Yes | Your WHOOP account password |
| `PORT` | ❌ No | Server port (default: 8000, auto-set by Render) |

### WHOOP Credentials

Get your WHOOP credentials:
1. Sign up at https://www.whoop.com
2. Ensure you have an active WHOOP subscription
3. Use your login email and password

**Security Note:** Your credentials are stored securely in environment variables and never logged or exposed.

---

## 📱 Using with Poke

### Connect to Poke

1. Deploy your server to Render (or run locally with ngrok)
2. Go to https://poke.com/settings/connections/integrations/new
3. Add your MCP server URL
4. Test the connection

### Testing the Connection

After connecting to Poke, test with:
```
"Use the test_connection tool"
```

You should see: ✅ MCP Server is working! Connection successful.

### Available Tools

#### 1. Overview Data
Ask Poke: *"What's my WHOOP data for today?"*

Returns:
- Recovery score
- Day strain
- Sleep hours
- Calories burned
- HRV, RHR trends
- Today's activities

#### 2. Sleep Analysis
Ask Poke: *"How did I sleep last night?"*

Returns:
- Sleep performance score
- Hours slept vs needed
- Sleep consistency
- Sleep efficiency
- Insights and recommendations

#### 3. Recovery Metrics
Ask Poke: *"What's my recovery score?"*

Returns:
- Recovery score (0-100%)
- HRV with trends
- RHR with trends
- Respiratory rate
- Coach insights

#### 4. Strain Tracking
Ask Poke: *"Show me my strain data"*

Returns:
- Strain score
- Heart rate zone distribution
- Strength activity time
- Steps
- Individual workouts

#### 5. Healthspan
Ask Poke: *"What's my biological age?"*

Returns:
- WHOOP Age (biological age)
- Age comparison vs chronological
- Pace of aging
- Weekly trends

### Example Conversation

```
User: What's my recovery score today?

Poke: [Calls whoop_get_recovery tool]

Response: Your recovery is 72% (Green - Ready to perform)

📊 Key Metrics:
  • HRV: 65ms (↑ 8% vs baseline)
  • RHR: 52bpm (↓ 3% vs baseline)
  • Sleep Performance: 85%

💡 Coach Insight: "Your recovery is in the green. Your body 
is ready for a high-intensity workout today."

User: Should I do a hard workout?

Poke: Based on your 72% recovery (green zone), yes! Your HRV 
is trending up 8% and your RHR is down 3%, indicating your 
body has recovered well. Your sleep was also strong at 85%. 
This is a great day for high-intensity training.
```

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
Poke AI ←→ MCP Server (Render) ←→ WHOOP API
         HTTPS/MCP              HTTPS/AWS Cognito
```

### Technology Stack

- **FastMCP 2.0** - MCP server framework
- **Python 3.10+** - Runtime
- **httpx** - Async HTTP client
- **Render** - Cloud hosting
- **AWS Cognito** - WHOOP authentication

---

## 🛠️ Development

### Project Structure

```
whoop-mcp-poke/
├── src/
│   ├── server.py           # FastMCP server
│   ├── whoop_client.py     # WHOOP API client
│   ├── config.py           # Configuration
│   └── tools/
│       └── whoop.py        # Tool handlers
├── requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
├── render.yaml            # Render configuration
└── README.md              # This file
```

### Running Tests

Test your MCP server with the MCP Inspector:

```bash
# Start your server
python src/server.py

# In another terminal
npx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector
```

Open http://localhost:3000 and connect to `http://localhost:8000/mcp` using "HTTP" transport.

---

## 🔒 Security

- ✅ Credentials stored in environment variables only
- ✅ WHOOP tokens auto-refresh (24-hour lifetime)
- ✅ No credentials in code or logs
- ✅ HTTPS for all API calls
- ✅ AWS Cognito authentication

**Best Practices:**
- Never commit `.env` file
- Use strong WHOOP password
- Rotate credentials if exposed
- Use Render's environment variable encryption

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### "Authentication failed" Error

**Solution:**
1. Verify your WHOOP email and password in Render environment variables
2. Try logging into https://app.whoop.com with the same credentials
3. Ensure your WHOOP subscription is active

### "Invalid MCP server URL" in Poke

**Solution:**
1. Verify your URL is exactly: `https://your-service-name.onrender.com/mcp`
2. Check that your Render service is running (green status)
3. Test the endpoint in a browser - you should see JSON response

### Deployment Timeout on Render

**Solution:**
1. Check Render logs for specific errors
2. Verify all environment variables are set
3. Ensure `requirements.txt` has all dependencies

### Server responds but no data returned

**Solution:**
1. Verify your WHOOP subscription is active
2. Check you have recent WHOOP data (wear your strap!)
3. Try querying data from a specific date: "What was my recovery on 2025-11-01?"

### "No module named 'fastmcp'" Error

**Solution:**
1. Verify `requirements.txt` has `fastmcp>=2.0.0`
2. On Render, trigger a manual deploy to reinstall dependencies
3. Check Render logs for failed dependency installation

---

## 📚 Resources

### Documentation
- [FastMCP Documentation](https://gofastmcp.com)
- [FastMCP GitHub](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp)
- [MCP Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io)
- [Poke Integration Guide](https://poke.com/settings/connections)
- [WHOOP](https://www.whoop.com)
- [Render Documentation](https://render.com/docs)

### Related Projects
- [Poke MCP Template](https://github.com/InteractionCo/mcp-server-template) - Official Poke template
- [MCP Inspector](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/inspector) - Tool for testing MCP servers

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

---

## 📄 License

MIT License - feel free to use this for your own projects!

---

## ⭐ Acknowledgments

- Built with [FastMCP 2.0](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp)
- Designed for [Poke AI Assistant](https://poke.com)

---

## 💬 Support

If you have questions or issues:
1. Check the [Troubleshooting](#-troubleshooting) section above
2. [Open an issue](https://github.com/kabirrgrover/whoop-mcp-poke/issues) on GitHub
3. Review [FastMCP documentation](https://gofastmcp.com)
4. Check [Poke's integration guide](https://poke.com/settings/connections)

---

## 🚀 Quick Links

- **Use This Template:** Click "Use this template" button above
- **Report Issues:** [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/kabirrgrover/whoop-mcp-poke/issues)
- **Star on GitHub:** Show your support! ⭐

---

**Made with ❤️ for the WHOOP and Poke communities**

*This is an open-source project. Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome!*
